Productivity is a big focus for my daily life. I think about it pretty much all the time and try to evaluate how I can get things done better and faster. Whether I am actually meeting all my targets all the time is another question. What I have found though is that routine really helps me become better at what I do. That might sound obvious, but not everyone believes in daily routine or have a clear way of achieving this.
 
When you think about routines, often this type of picture comes into mind: 

- Wakeup
- Eat Breakfast
- Shower
- Dress 
- Commute to Work
- Work
- Lunch
- Commute back home
- Dinner
- Relax / Exercise
- Sleep

Or perhaps you have moved into more of a Goal oriented routine and incorporate a few more things like:

- Wakeup at 5am 
- Exercise 5-6am
- Write Goals for the day, tomorrow.
- Write / Reflect on Goals today and the future.

When it comes to self improvement and achieving goals of any kind, I've found it difficult in the past to really stick to my goals. I use [trello](https://trello.com) to manage all the tasks in my life/work. Most typically, when you start out you'll create a few columns like this:
  
- Backlog
- Todo
- Doing
- Done
- Pending / Blocked

So you start to add a whole bunch of cards into your Backlog, work on priortizing for the week and you're done! It feels great, you have a better idea of where things are at and a nice sense of accomplishment when you get cards to "Done".

### Where Things Fall Apart

What usually happens from here, is that the Backlog gets bigger and bigger. Overtime, it's so large that you can't decide how to priortize it and give up or basically feel like you're never accomplishing enough. 

One idea that can help is putting a "cap" on the amount of cards you can put into the Backlog. It's totally up to you to stick to this cap, but 



